This is Jocopotcast number 176.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
Usually, when I write a letter, it is very much overdue,
and I make every effort to get it away quickly.
This letter, however, is different.
It is a letter that I hope you would never receive
as it is verification of that turse, black-edged card,
which you received some time ago,
and which has caused you so much grief.
It is because of this grief that I wrote this letter.
And by the time you have finished reading it,
hope that it is done some good,
and that I have not written it in vain.
It is very difficult to write now of future things
in the past tense, so I am returning to the present.
Tomorrow we go into action.
As yet, we do not know exactly what our job will be,
but no doubt, it will be a dangerous one
in which many lives will be lost.
Mine may be one of those lives.
Well, mom, I am not afraid to die.
I like this life, yes,
for the past two years,
have planned and dreamed and mapped out a perfect future for myself.
I would have liked that future to materialize,
but it is not what I will, but what God wills.
Then if by sacrificing all this,
I leave the world slightly better than I found it.
I am perfectly willing to make that sacrifice.
Don't get me wrong, though, mom.
I am no flag waving patriot, nor have I ever profess to be.
England's a great little country, the best there is.
But I cannot honestly and sincerely say that it is worth fighting for.
Nor can I fancy myself in the role of a gallant crusader fighting
for the liberation of Europe.
It would be a nice thought, but I would only be kidding myself.
No, mom, my little world is centered around you.
It includes dad, everyone at home, and my friends,
and Wolverhampton.
That is worth fighting for.
And if by doing so, it strengthens your security and improves your lot
in any way that it is worth dying for too.
Now, this is where I come to the point of this letter.
As I have already stated, I am not afraid to die,
and then perfectly willing to do so.
If by my doing so, you benefit in any way whatsoever.
If you do not, then my sacrifice is all in vain.
Have you benefited, mom, or have you cried and worried yourself sick?
I fear it is the latter.
Don't you see, mom, that it will do me no good,
and that in addition, you are undoing all the good work I have tried to do.
Grief is hypocritical, useless, and unfair,
and does neither you nor me any good.
I want no flowers, no epitaph, no tears.
All I want is for you to remember me and feel proud of me.
Then shall I rest in peace, knowing that I have done a good job?
Death is nothing final or lasting.
If it were, there would be no point in living.
It is just a stage in everyone's life.
To some it comes early, to others late, but it must come to everyone's time.
Then surely, there is no better way of dying.
Besides, I have probably crammed more enjoyment into my 21 years than some managed to do in 80.
My only regret is that I have not done as much for you as I would have liked to do.
I love you, mom.
You are the best mother in the world.
And what I fail to do in life, I am trying to make up for in death.
So please don't let me down, mom.
Don't worry, or fret.
But smile.
Be proud and satisfied.
I never had much money, but what little I have is all yours.
Please don't be silly and sentimental about it.
And don't try to spend it on me, spend it on yourself or the kiddies.
It will do some good that way.
Remember that where I am, I am quite okay.
And providing I know that you are not grieving over me.
She'll be perfectly happy.
Well, mom, that is all.
And I hope I have not written it all in vain.
Good bye.
And thanks for everything.
You are unworthy son, E4.
And that was a letter from private E4, Roe Berry, who served in the British Army in the South
Staffordshire Regiment and the letter can be found in a book called Last Letters Home.
And it was his last letter home.
He was killed in Ochnem on 17 September 1944, in the opening action of Operation Market Garden,
which was conceived in planned and championed by Field of Marshall Bernard Montgomery.
And this massive operation overall, it's generally assessed as a failure.
Although history has been kind and some people look back and theorized that it did have a more positive impact on the battlefield
than was initially fought, but nonetheless, it didn't achieve objectives and there was a significant amount of casualties.
And as I said, this was Monti.
Monti's plan is the plan that he pushed.
And as I said on the last podcast about him, this is one of the things that makes him controversial,
that he led this operation, Market Garden.
And as I said on the last podcast, he was able to redeem himself somewhat in the battle of the bulge,
but this negative was pretty impactful.
And with that, that doesn't mean that there's nothing we can learn from that situation.
And we covered it on the podcast, that battle from that perspective.
And we have to learn from people's successes and people's failures just as we have to learn from our own successes and our own failures.
And on the last podcast, we talked about Monti's in a few of leadership.
And if you haven't listened to that podcast yet, it's number 174, that kind of talks a little bit more detail slightly about Monti and his thoughts.
And we debated a little bit the meaning of the word dominate, which he kind of puts as one of these driving forces as a leader.
As the leader's ability to dominate.
And I talked about how I'm not quite sure where he falls with that word.
You know, because dominate can have a very negative connotation.
And I actually asked for feedback and a bunch of people gave me feedback.
And I think I landed somewhere kind of in the middle.
I don't think it's the dominate with the, with the, hey, I'm just going to roll over my people.
I don't think that's how we meant it.
I think he, but I don't think he meant it in like, hey, I'm just dominate.
I dominate my skills and that's why I'm good.
I think he meant it somewhere in the middle.
And then I talked about the fact that one of the other major important factors that Monti talks about is morale.
And he wrote another little thing about morale called morale and battle.
And I think I actually wish I would have covered this one first.
And this one almost trumps the leadership.
His thoughts on leadership, because I think this is even more applicable and relatable.
But it's, it's good solid stuff from someone that led massive numbers of troops in battle.
And saw a lot of war in World War I and World War II, obviously.
So with that morale in battle and we're going to jump right into it.
Here we go.
This paper is an attempt to analyze what is at the root of morale in battle.
And thereby to discover how it can be developed.
Hymeral is defined as endurance and courage in supporting fatigue and danger.
In other words, the quality which makes men go forward in an attack and hold their ground in defense.
It is the quality without which no war can be won.
So this is a, and I'll get to this in the end.
He talks about morale being the most important factor on the battlefield.
Obviously, I think leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield.
And I'll break that down a little bit later, but from his perspective as a guy that had led massive operations.
He feels morale is the most important thing.
So without a doubt, it is important.
Here we get into his thoughts on it.
And again, I think you're going to see this, the stuff that he talks about morale.
He seems to nail this.
I think even better than he nails leadership.
So here we go, the quality of morale in war, the moral stature of some men increases and their characters grow stronger and more close.
closely knit in proportion to the discomforts and dangers which they are called upon to face.
I said this over and over again.
War.
War can make you stronger.
War can make you a better person.
This is something that Peter T. and I talked about when he first came on the podcast and we talked about.
Families that were slightly fractured. If they have a major incident, a medical emergency, somebody gets wounded, somebody gets cancer.
If the family's close, it'll make them closer.
If the family's fractured, it'll blow them apart.
He's saying the same thing here.
Back to the book, such men will occasionally perform in battle, remarkable acts of self-lish courage and daring and will endure with extraordinary fortitude and patience.
The burdens thrust upon them.
Other men, however, will under the stress of hardships or dangers surrender to fear or fatigue and will allow their characters to disintegrate.
So the same thing that Peter T. was talking about with families and this is the same thing with any team or organization.
You have a team that's pretty close and they go through something rough. They get even closer.
You have a team that's kind of fractured and they go through something tough. They're going to explode.
Same thing happens with people's personalities in character in war.
This disintegration is usually, will usually take the form of elucing of the moral fiber which results in timidity of action and slackness in appearance.
He talks a lot about appearance.
One of these guys.
In battle, men who have kept a firm grip upon themselves when a player will appear clean and vital in their appearance,
while those who have gone to seed will be dirty and their appearance will be slobvenly.
So he's one of those guys.
Hey, if you don't look at this, obviously, this is the much of the military.
They will judge you on how you look.
That's not always true. Sometimes you get a guy that looks like a rogue, street person.
And he's a good operator.
And sometimes, not. It depends.
Similarly, timid officers will be found during quiet periods in the line, grovelling in the filth of some seller,
while their signalers and runners separated from the light, attempt to do their jobs by the flame of a guttering candle.
In these latter cases, there's been a general loosening of the character due to a partial surrender to fear.
So you get these timid officers there out there and they cower and they're scared.
And they, while their troops are up, trying to do their job.
In extreme cases, men who have become afraid have sunk to the level of beasts.
No longer in full control of themselves. They have become as sheep or rabbits unable to act or loan or think rationally.
Their instincts have become those of the herd.
They are either paralyzed by fear or gripped by un-reasoning panic, such manner exceptions,
but they are a reminder of the value of high morale.
The good soldier, the man with high morale, has not surrendered to fear and has maintained his personal standards.
The bad soldier, the man with low morale, has become incapable of dependent action of independent action
and has to some extent shed a part of his human individuality.
So this is what you get. People had all freaked out and they don't act for themselves anymore.
They're just going to fall down hurt.
Moral is a mental and moral quality. It is a quality peculiar to human beings because it is essentially the product of a mind with a conscience.
It is that which in battle keeps men up on humanity's level, as opposed to being a beast.
But humanity's levels are not high enough because the strongest human instinct is the instinct of survival.
Moral is also that which develops man's latent heroism so that he will overcome his desire to take the easy way out and surrender to fear.
So you got to be a little bit beyond human because the human instinct, the strongest human instinct, is I, I'm just going to stay alive. That's my goal.
You got to be more than that. You got to be better than that.
It is necessary now to make clear what high morale is not.
It is not contentment or satisfaction bred from ease or comfort of living.
Both of these contain a hint of complacency and acceptance of luxury as an and in itself.
High morale is far more than any of these for it implies essentially the ability to triumph over discomforts and dangers and carry on with the job.
So if you're one of these leaders, you're in a leadership position and you think, well, you know,
how do I raise my morale of my men? Give them luxury days. Give them feel of on luxury days.
Theo negative not happening. That doesn't do it.
Back to the book. Nor is, no, because I'm sorry because what you have to do is you have to give them challenge. You have to give them discomfort.
Or you're not, not you have to give them. They have to face discomfort.
They have to face danger. And that's what increases morale. When they face and they try them over that. That's what increases morale.
Pizza and fine satan sheets do not increase morale.
They might get a little surface nudge, but they don't increase morale.
Otherwise, your morale would be through the roof.
All day. So the morale is so it's like not to be confused because you do need like the rest between sets.
Yes, right. And that's different. And you can't just beat people down.
Right. Right. You can't, you can't, you know, you have to get sleep. You have to get rest. You have to have some level of comfort or your amount of morale will get beat down.
But that can't be the primary aim. Right.
Right. Right. If you as leaders to provide comfort. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like, hey, let's boost morale by letting people sleep or whatever. Right.
And letting them sleep. But, you know, yeah, give them give them two days off. How about one day off and we come back and trade hard.
Right. Yeah. It seemed like you wouldn't, you wouldn't give them the day off if they don't need the day off.
Like you need the day off or something very specific, like some sort of fatigue situation or whatever.
Bottom line is, is a dichotomy. Right. Can you go too far with comfort and pleasure and leisure? Yes, you can.
Yeah. Can you go too far with discipline and hardness and sternness and scarcity of resources? Yes, you can. You have to find a balance somewhere in the middle.
I think the point here is that people lean towards, well, if I want to increase morale, I just need to give luxury to the troops.
That's the wrong way to lean.
Actually, lean. I'm not saying go full bore, but you should lean in the direction of hard training discipline. Lean in that direction. Don't go full bore in that direction. Lean in that direction.
Yeah. It's almost like, I mean, you think, but it seems like making them feel what, like empowered or strong, right?
Let that's kind of the result you're going to. Hey, let me just break it for break it down for you real simple.
If you go and you have a good training, you just do how do you feel when you're done.
How's your morale? Pretty high. Maralas, hi. If you sit there and watch TV all day and you eat a pizza and a donut, how do you feel at the end of the day? How's your morale?
Yeah, be morale, shabby. Now, if you train, you just do nine hours for 14 days straight, how do you feel broken down?
Yeah. Right? And then how do you feel when it's like, hey, man, day off today, echo, all good. Hey, I guess what, I ordered some pizza for you too. It's coming.
It's going to be your in 15 minutes. We're going to shout out. We're going to watch the fights. Cool. That's good morale boost. We're all good. Yeah. But you got to find that balance.
Yeah.
All right, back to the book.
Nor is high morale achieved through fitness or healthiness alone.
It is important not to confuse the idea of physical happiness with morale.
The happy faces of men after a good game of football are not necessarily the faces of men with good morale.
Morales, a mental rather than a physical quality, a determination to overcome obstacles and instinct,
of instinct driving a man forward against his own desires.
Driving a man forward against his own desires.
That's a good one. That's a good one.
And he attaches the physical and the mental part a little bit more than I do.
I think they're a little bit more closely related. I think that when you're in good physical shape, it helps your mental morale.
But he goes on to say this, which is spot on.
High morale is not happiness.
Happiness may be a contribute to where he factor in the maintenance of morale over a long period,
but it is no more than that. A man can be unhappy, but can still regularly and without complaining advance and defend within the terms of the definition.
So that's an important thing.
And again, this is a trap that leaders get suckered into. Hey, if I can make my people happy, then morale is good.
No, no.
Pizza will make your people happy, but it won't increase morale.
It might increase morale if you get it at the right time for the right reason.
Do you eat Hawaiian pizza?
No.
Check.
Is that just a lie?
Yeah, that's a complete violation.
We don't even need that kind of pizza in Hawaii.
Generally speaking, he didn't correct.
Well, there you go.
That's the thing. It's like Canadian bacon.
What does Hawaiian pizza do to your morale?
Apparently it's inhibitor.
Yeah, it's an inhibitor.
Well, Canadian bacon, yes, like Canadians.
Is this Canadian bacon? It's just a little piece of ham, basically.
Yeah.
You go, hey, to someone from Canada, be like, hey, this is Canadian bacon.
The like, no, that's ham.
You made that up.
Have you ever have an English muffin before?
Yes.
I mean, England.
Because they don't.
Yeah.
They just call them.
Just like French fries, right?
Yeah.
Or wait.
In French, in France, they're called something else though.
They're not called French fries.
No, that's England.
I think they're called French fries.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Same deal, then.
All right.
This is an important another.
Again, you can see I was in going through this to figure out what I was going to.
What parts I was going to single out?
I ended up doing so much of this one.
Yeah.
Because at almost every line is like, yes, you need to know that.
Yes, I need to know that.
I need to remember that.
So here's one.
Hi, morale is not toughness.
This one caught me a little off guard.
Some very tough men in this war have turned out to be very disappointing in action.
Toughness is a physical and not a mental asset.
Tough men will occasionally perform an isolated act of bravery.
So the morale, however, is not a quality which produces a momentary act.
It influences behavior at all times.
So that's completely true.
And it's true in combat.
It's true in training, even.
Like somebody going through what basic seal training there was some tough guys there.
Like tough for you.
Oh, that guy seems like a tough guy.
Quitter.
And then there's guys that get through buds.
It's like, oh, they were tough in buds.
Like they did some good job in buds, but it has nothing to do with how well you're going to do as a seal.
Yeah.
Like it does.
It's, I would say there's some correlation, but it's, it's a very loose correlation.
Being a good seal, buds trainee has very little to do with being a good seal in a seal team.
And I think that's sometimes surprises people.
But then again, it's generally surprised people because being a good team.
Because being good at buds, buds is a physical evolution has very little to do with your mentality and has very little to do with leadership and unit cohesion.
And so to show up at a team, what's the most important thing when you get to a team, the most important thing when you get to a team is to be a team member and be a leader in that team or a follower in that team.
If you aren't those things, you're not going to be good.
You can be super tough.
That's great.
And there's times when it pays to be tough.
And you definitely, as a seal, you can't not be.
You can't not have some level of toughness.
You know, when I think about being a seal, there's stuff that you just do on a regular basis that when it's your life.
When it's just the way your life is, you don't really think about it.
But when you take a step back and you think about what you like when I think about my old job, and I'm talking about going back to the 90s, right?
Oh, we're going to go, we have dive week, which is, or dive training.
So you go for like four or five weeks of dive training and you're diving two times a day.
It's your wetsuit, your, your, your, your wetsuits wet when you're putting it back on and then you're going to go get an abote and you're going to drive for an hour and a half.
An hour and a half up the coast and then you're going to, it's going to be dark and you're going to put on your drag or rebreather and you're going to get in that water again and you're going to kick in the darkness with bio luminescence flying around you for three and a half hours.
You're going to get into this random harbor, your freezing cold, you're going to plant all a limpid and fake limpid mind on some.
But navy ship somewhere, then you're going to paddle, you're going to swim, fin your way back out. You're going to run out of oxygen, once you run out of oxygen, you're going to come to the surface, and then you're going to swim on the surface for another.
48 minutes and then you meet up with that little zodiac boat, you get in, you're freezing, you're exhausted.
And then you drive an hour and 20 minutes to get back to Coronado when you get back, you're going to debrief you're going to get take care of your zodiacs then you're going to take care of your dive rigs then you're going to take.
You're going to take care of your personal gear, then you're going to take a shower and then you're going to sleep for three hours.
You're going to wake up with another dive mission tasking, you're going to do the same thing again.
Just cold, wet, miserable.
That's the life. That's the life.
So, do you got to have some level of mental toughness?
Sure you do and every seal's got that.
But this part talking about like, you know, when you start talking about leadership and being a team player and being a good leader and being a good follower and being smart,
and tactically sound and being a good decision makers, those are the things that matter.
When you start talking about the just the idea of being tough, it's like, that's cool.
And it's important in everyone in the teams has that or most people in the teams have that baseline.
Because it is a little bit challenging to make it through seal training.
If you don't at least have some level, it does happen.
You get some guys who think, man, what happened?
Or you just break down some people have the idea that once they get through seal training, they're done.
You shouldn't be in seal training to go through seal training.
You should be in seal training to get to the seal teams to serve your country, to go into combat, to take the fight to the enemy.
That's why you join the seal teams.
Not to see how tough you are.
So next, in brief, high morale is a quality which is good in itself and is latent in all men.
It maintains human dignity, in a enables fear and fatigue to be overcome.
It is involved with the idea of a conscience, but it should be not confused with fitness or happiness or toughness.
So this goes pretty good lengths to make that distinction, section two basic factors of morale.
It is now necessary to consider what factors constitute the morale of the soldier in the heat of battle.
Certain factors may be described as essential conditions without which high morale cannot exist.
These four basic factors are one leadership, two discipline, three comradeship, four self-respect.
A fifth factor devotion to cause must exist, but need not necessarily influence all of the soldiers.
There are numerous contributors to our factors which are of great importance but not essential conditions.
So that's what he's got. The fourth thing is that you have to have in order to have high morale.
Then the first factor of course is leadership which again he's supporting my argument that leadership is the most important thing.
I don't feel that if you don't have leadership you're not going to have good morale.
Right.
So right there I already got you beat, Monny.
And guess what is second one is discipline, where does that come from? Leadership. What about common ownership?
That's comes from all these things come from leadership. Anyways, we'll get to that.
Leadership morale is in the first place based on leadership.
Good morale is impossible without good leaders.
The quality of leadership is one which must be studied.
Human beings are fundamentally alike in that very common characteristics apply to all men in varying degrees.
And this is what's such a great dichotomy of humans is that all humans are the same and all humans are different.
Right. Like you know it's true.
How can that be true? All humans are the same. All humans are different. And that's completely true statement.
In battle, the most important of these characteristics is fear. All men are afraid at one time or another and to a greater or lesser extent.
In moments of fear, they band together and look for guidance. They seek for a person to give decisions they look for a leader.
In times of war, the leader has opportunities denied to him in peace.
The difficulties, dangers and discomforts inseparable from the battlefield may make men cry out for the leadership they can do without in peace.
At such moments, men are too weak to stand alone. They find the burdens to great to bear and their own selves unequal to the task.
The leader himself accepts the burdens of others and by doing so earns their greatest and the right.
Ornth their gratitude and the right to lead them.
Challenging times, things are going sideways. Bad things are happening.
That's when people are most susceptible to leadership.
This is completely true. Every routine, a team dynamic where like when everything is going good.
Pretty much like you can, it's going to be hard to tell who the leader is and then all of a sudden something happens.
Something that's chaotic or something that's challenging happens and then you can see that leader just shhh, rise to the top.
I see that a million times. I see that a million times putting pull-toons through training.
You kind of not really know what's going on. Who's really, who's really running this boom?
You start hitting these guys with some downman and some IEDs in the training battlefield.
You'll see the real leaders will start to step up hopefully.
I don't know if they don't step up on all.
But, and this is totally true. You see people want to be led.
People want to be led. There's going to be some times a little leadership vacuum.
Sometimes you've got to step in and fill that leadership vacuum.
Back to the book, consider a platoon. IED 30 men in action in the line.
The men are drawn from all classes and all types.
They are there in the line because they have obeyed a long series of orders,
which it was easier to obey than to disobey.
But now the test comes. It is easier for them not to obey orders.
It is easier for them to stay where they are behind the hill and not advance over the crest
and to full view of the enemy lies and weight beyond.
The dominant motive force, which drives them over the hill, is the leader.
It is his quality of leadership above all things, which inspires the men to action.
This is one of those paints that I'm very clearly when people talk about,
well, you know, the military even just does what you said because you're in charge.
Try that once everyone is going to die.
Well, once your lives are at stake, people just don't rod your up to say,
hey, Ecos plans kind of lame to go charge the machine gun nest,
but you know what he's in charge, so I'm going to go do it.
No, doesn't work. You have to lead.
These men recognize in their leaders some quality, which they themselves do not possess.
That quality is decision.
Fear makes men sluggish and indecisive unable to decide and act for themselves.
This is, you know, people talk about being frozen by fear or,
or have you ever had that thing where you're not quite sure what you're going to do?
Like you, I don't know if I want to do this.
I don't know if I want to even like something stupid, like not something stupid,
but you know buying a house, right?
That's a big purchase you're going to lay down a bunch of money.
The market could go up or down.
You're committing to a payment for 30 years.
There's not so many things in life you commit to for 30 years.
Basically there's only one other one.
You're getting married, right?
There's any other commitment that's 30 years.
I guess you get a tattoo that's a lifetime, right?
So there's these decisions that you have to make.
And sometimes we don't, sometimes you see people don't want to make decisions.
Right? They don't want to make a decision.
What's making them in decisive?
You think about it, what's making people in decisive is fear.
They're afraid of what that outcome might bring.
So if you find yourself being in decisive,
instead of asking yourself, is this the right decision or wrong decision,
ask yourself, what am I afraid of?
Hmm.
Back to the book, the leader's power over his men is based on his ability
and it caught through this fear paralysis and in doing so,
to enable others to escape from it.
The rightness of the decision taken by the leader is irrelevant.
Think about that from the leadership perspective.
If there's a decision that needs to be made,
whether you're right or wrong is irrelevant,
what you need to do is be decisive.
What matters is that the decision should be taken
and that the leader should shoulder the responsibility for that decision.
The leader must convince his men of its rightness,
even though he himself might be in maybe uncertain of his own judgment.
If the leader will decide, the men will follow and fight.
If there is indecision, they will hesitate and flee.
In short, fight and survive, or fear and be slain.
The leader decides.
Yeah.
Moving on.
The leader's power of decision results from his ability
to remain imperpitable in the crisis.
His calmness prevents panic and his resolution compels action.
It follows that this.
It follows from this that the leader must be less fearful than his men.
He need not be impervious to fear.
Since men require a human figure to lead them,
what he must do is radiate an atmosphere of confidence
which will show his men that he is less afraid than they.
He must have the moral courage to stand firm
when his men are wavering.
In this respect, they will judge him by his power of thought
and action in crisis.
Fear destroys the faculty of thought and paralyzes action.
The leader must continue to think longer than his men
and his thoughts must lead to action.
So there you go.
Don't panic, don't freak out.
You gotta stay calm.
And how do you do that?
You train for it.
And when you train for it, what do you learn from the training?
You learn how to do detach.
That's what you learn how to do.
That's how you keep your emotions in check.
You don't let him get a hold of you.
The leader's greatest asset is the ability to act normally
in abnormal conditions.
This is normal face.
101.
To continue to think rationally when his men have ceased to think
to be decisive in action when they are paralyzed by fear.
So this is a, that section is something you should always
strive to do from a leadership perspective.
Stay calm.
Don't panic.
Think about what's happening.
He didn't say it, but I'm going to say it detach mentally.
So you don't get caught up in the emotion and the fear and the chaos.
Next, the object of training must be firstly to select those
who possess within them.
The potentiality of leadership and second to develop these
potentialities.
So yes, you've got to look for who's going to be a good leader.
And then you've got to hone that leader.
This is accomplished by giving the leader responsibility
boom, my favorite cure for leadership problems is put people in
leadership positions.
A leaders character will develop and proportion to the
responsibility with which he has been entrusted.
The more responsibility you put on someone, the more
responsible they're going to become.
Think about the little kids, right?
Think about a little kid.
The more responsibility you give a little kid, the more mature
they're going to be, the more responsibility they're going to take.
It starts with making your own peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.
You should be doing that on your own as soon as it's physically
possible.
You're going to make a mask.
That's what they're going to clean up the mess.
Every time you break down and you make that PB&J for your
little child, you're taking responsibility away from them and
you're making them a weaker human being.
And they feel it.
I made my, she's six, my daughter.
I made her set the table.
You know, the old class.
Yeah, yeah, set the table.
And she knew what it was, but she hadn't really gone through the whole
deal before.
So sure enough, she's like, you know, she didn't want to.
But I'm like, hey, you know, you set the table is what you do.
You know, you're kind of, you know, this is your job.
You know, you're going to do the kind of thing.
So once she set like the first one, yeah, and she did it correctly,
she was rolling with it.
It was her table.
She was like, hey, I'm here.
Boom, she was making decisions.
Taking ownership.
Oh, full of it.
Oh, yeah.
And you could tell just in her tone kind of like she was super empowered.
Little six year old.
Yeah.
You know, where, and kind of to look on the whole situation where
this was someone who didn't want to do it.
It was a chore.
Yeah.
You want to do the chore.
But, you know, you know, you're going to do it.
You know, you implement it.
I mean, in my case correctly, you give them ownership.
That's what you did at contrast.
You gave your daughter ownership.
This is your job.
This is your responsibility.
You said, you, this is how you do it, but you do it.
You make it happen.
Yeah, that, and I use that term a lot.
Make it happen.
And it's weird.
I don't know if it's what it is about that term with my specific kids.
Because that's what that feels good.
Yeah, like you have influence over this whole situation.
It's good to think about it when you're, when, as a human being, it's kind of weird that you can make things happen.
It's good to think straight up.
Right?
Yeah.
It's a positive thing.
Yeah, and, and yeah, that's a good one.
Making it, making it happen.
Make it happen.
And you know, like, because, and adults do this too.
I do this.
We all do this.
Maybe you don't, I don't know.
But, you know, how, like, if you say, hey, can you do this?
And then, whether you don't want to or you don't know how to,
you're just sketch about, you know, the whole thing you ask a lot of questions.
Well, what if this?
And you know, like, people do that.
It's almost like they put a bunch of excuses, preloading.
From, yeah, to indicate, hey, I can't really do this, you know, kind of thing.
And it's almost like, just, maybe it's like, then being hesitant,
maybe it's everything, you know, all the same.
So my kids will do that a lot, you know, like, all but what is, you know,
all these questions kind of thing indicating, they don't want to do it.
They want to throw up all this smoke, so you finally just go, hey, I'll do it or whatever.
And I started saying that.
I was like, I don't know, make it up and they just do it.
They just make it happen.
It's all that I mean, sure, the job won't be the greatest, the first time kind of thing.
But they have the attitude of just making it happen, you know.
You ever, you ever heard like the old guy that's like, when I was your age.
Yeah, sometimes it's me.
Yeah, I was going to say, no, you just made me think that because I do that.
You know, I'll be like, what, I was your age.
I wasn't a seal, but you know, you're getting me.
That doesn't work in my case. Do that ever work for you? Yeah.
It does. Well, never work.
Because, you know, when one of my older kids that are, you know, my age when I wasn't a seal-up tune,
it's like, you know, you're asking me how to do, like, some such simple life thing,
yeah, or asking me to do it for you.
Yeah.
Like, are you serious right now?
Are you serious right now?
Yeah.
When I was your age, I was in a seal-up tune.
I was going on deployment overseas.
I had guns and radios and encryption devices.
And you're telling me what, you know, whatever the thing is, you can't make that happen.
Is that where you're at right now?
Yeah.
And then, could you be what I was your age?
I always feel like, when my dad or whatever would say that,
and I feel like if I say it to the my kids, they're going to be thinking like,
Yeah, but it's not cool.
It's not, it's, I'm actually saying this, putting myself like in a little bit of check.
It's like, we talked about last time, you know, you can't just be like,
who, when I was, yeah, no, you need to be, I need to do a better job.
But it is good.
The thing is, it is good because the way my, and it'd be usually my older daughter,
because my older daughter, because she's the one that actually is of age without her was in.
She actually takes it in a, in a positive way, like,
she'll have a look on her face like dang.
I am actually being like really, really dumb right now to be even asking this.
I can obviously figure this thing out, what it does, you know,
some, you know, the DMV, how do you set an appointment at the DMV?
Are you serious right now?
Make it out.
Yeah, you can't figure that out.
You could never heard of something called Google.
Yeah.
Think of how easy things are now.
But you can't even do that?
No, not happening.
I was in a, I was in a, I was in a damn seal between when I was your age.
I think I was responsible for stuff.
They're telling me you can't figure out how to set an appointment at the DMV.
Are you kidding me?
This is what I think.
I did my hypothesis.
Yeah.
I think that you say enough stuff to your older daughter in this case, where she can relate, where
it resonate.
I get where you're saying it just is.
Yes.
But I think that once you say what I was your age, I was in a seal platoon.
She got, she checks out.
That's what I need to be careful of.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The other thing I'll get from my kids, we just moved here.
You know, you, you, you know, to be different.
They kind of, yeah, I'm not, like, well, that's, of course, you did that.
Yeah.
And I'm like, no, no, you did not true.
It's not just like, oh, I did that because I'm more square away than you are.
No, you're actually more capable than I ever was.
Yeah.
But there's need to step up your game.
I know, Racy, and this is my whole point.
The things you're correct with, what you're saying, you're correct.
But from the kids standpoint, they don't believe that.
Like, from my, if my dad would tell me that kind of stuff, I'd be like, yeah, I,
I literally think that's because you're you.
Not to say that you're tougher or you're whatever.
It's like, you're you.
But right, you're you. You lived in the cave mandates.
Leave me alone about like, figuring, but then if you're like, hey, go,
make the DMV appointment, go and Google, figure it out, kind of things.
That, that relates to them.
It's like, yeah, he's right.
And then spread it and if she's a grown up, essentially, you know, she's going to
She's going to read it.
When my son was like 10 years old, you know, and he might sound
a good surfer.
And I was out surfing with him and I was watching him surf.
And I said, you know, he was patting.
I just caught a wave like beautiful wave.
He's patting out.
And I said, in a little while, you're going to be a better surfer than I
What I am.
And I thought he'd say, oh, that's cool.
He looked at me like I was completely insane.
Yeah.
And like I was the craziest, like, it'd be like, he, you could see
in his eyes.
He thought that that was not a humanly possible thing that
would ever happen.
I mean, imagine that.
Like, that's the look in his face.
And he kind of just completely shrugged it off and's like, yeah, right.
Yeah.
And I mean, six months later, he was better than me.
And now he's just like infinitely better than me.
Yeah.
But through your point, when, you know, when you're looking up at
Dad, then sometimes it's this is an unachievable thing.
Yeah.
And actually, that's not true.
And the young kids got a recognize that they can outperform
their lame parents if they put their mind to it.
Yeah.
And the same thing that happens with subordinates, right?
You have your subordinate on your team and you think, hey, you have more
skill than I ever had.
You have more talent than I ever had.
If you apply it correctly, you will be able to outperform me
without question.
And sometimes people look at you like, oh, you're crazy.
That could never happen.
It's like, no, it can happen.
Yeah.
It can happen.
But you've got to train.
That's another thing is people think, oh, well, you just,
this is natural.
No, no, no, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, yeah.
On the other side.
No, I know that's one.
That's another thing.
Like when I was on with, when we had Captain Plum and Jim
Conkelon, and they were like throwing me in the basket of being like
them.
Yeah.
You know, my day guys is all along.
Just check yourselves.
I'm 47 years old and I'm barely hanging on to like
figuring the stuff out.
I'm not in the, I'm not in the game with you guys in terms of
figuring out what you all have figured out.
I mean, those guys are leaps and bounds and in
iteration upon iteration of knowledge above me.
And, and I'm just sitting there thinking,
take it easy, Captain Plum.
Yeah.
But again, that's just sort of a matter of perspective.
You know, like that things can seem so much like they can
seem like a very, something very specific.
But just because of your perspective, you know, you don't get
for sure.
You know, yeah.
All right, check.
Going back to the book.
His position as the man responsible for the lives and
well-being of his men must be impressed upon him.
In battle, his preoccupation with his men's affairs will give
him less time to think of his own fears.
The mere fact of responsibility will increase the leaders
and powers of decision and make him confident of his ability to handle
any crisis.
So you've got to train people in these challenging situations.
Training must also seek to equip the leader with the other
qualities which will help him in his task.
Here are those qualities.
A leader should be efficient.
He should possess self-confidence.
He should be firm and just in his dealings with his men.
He should be clear-cut and definite in giving orders.
He should pay attention to administrative details.
He should prepare his men and advance for any new experience they may have
to meet.
All these things are important, but they can never be a substitute for.
A decision in action and B calmness in crisis.
Yeah.
Stay calm.
Now, one thing that I get a little nervous about talking about
is the decision in action is sometimes what that means.
The way that translates to a young, pulled to leader is
I'm going to make a decision right now.
Hey, everyone, you know, boom, I'm going to jump into it.
And you can't do that.
You have to do assessment.
You have to look at what the situation's going to.
Actually, you've got to have a protocol of how you're going to make those decisions.
You've got to think about the way it's going to go down.
You can't just jump at the first thing that pops in your mind.
You need to think about it.
You need to think about the options.
You need to think about the consequences of those options.
And then you need to see if you can move in the right direction without full commitment.
Right?
Do you have to occasionally make full commitment on a decision?
Yes.
If you're, if you got ambushed and you're in the kill zone,
guess what you're going to have to do.
Assault through the ambush.
That's what you're going to have to do it.
You're going to have to do it decisively and powerfully.
And with full 100% commitment.
But if you take some rounds, but you're not sure if it's an ambush,
well, you might not want to necessarily assault through that position.
So you need to think you need to allow things to develop.
So it's a very, it's part of the art of leadership with, with teaching young,
see a leaders.
Okay.
You need to let the situation develop.
Here's the problem.
Once the situation starts developing,
if you let it develop too far, it's got to start a controller.
Right?
It's, it's a, it's a little, it's a little problem.
When you look at it, then you need to, look at the problem.
Make sure you understand the problem.
Meanwhile, the problem in some cases is growing.
If you allow the problem to grow too much,
now you can't control the problem anymore,
and you're going to get crushed by the problem.
If you, if you see a small problem and you jump right into solving the problem,
that might, the problem might have to be what you thought it was.
And you went out at the wrong direction.
So there's a fine line.
Like the decision in action is important,
but thoughtful decision is what it should be.
Thoughtful decision.
And the reason I keep trying to stress and articulate to people
that you don't necessarily need to make a full commitment to a plan.
You can take them, you can take a smaller step, an iterative step in the right direction.
Before you just jump in.
So that's just important to think about.
How does all that compare to making no decision?
Well, making no decisions is the worst thing you can do.
Making no decision standing there and the kill zone getting overrun by the enemy and everyone killed.
That's the worst thing you can do.
We want to at least make some kind of a decision.
So that's why I think he stresses so the importance of decision in action so much
is because he's probably seeing people be in decisive and battle and it's a horrible, horrible thing.
So yes, you want to be decisive, but let's take that one little step further.
We want to have thoughtful decisions.
Do we want to have a mental 20 minute debate over the decision?
No.
A thought can take five seconds.
You can let a situation develop for eight seconds.
And you go, wait a second.
I think this is what's happening.
Let me confirm to I see anyone over there.
Yep, what the enemy fire is increasing.
You know what?
We need to make this move.
Boom.
You do it.
That's what we're talking about.
Back to the book.
These are two vital attributes of a leader with which he will succeed and without which he will fail.
These two vital qualities exist in varying degrees in every leader.
Those men who possess them to a limited extent can nevertheless become adequate leaders by being trained in the qualities of the world.
They're trained in the qualities already enumerated.
Such leaders must in the first place be efficient.
This efficiency will impress itself on the men.
They're by creating an atmosphere of confidence with which will partially compensate for any lack of personality.
By this means training can make men into competent, but not outstanding leaders.
There's another aspect of leadership in its relation to morale.
The best type of leader earns the respectful admiration of his men because he possesses certain good qualities which they lack.
A brutal leader who disregards the feelings of his men will not infuse them with the quality of self-respect.
The morale of the troops he commands regardless of his qualities of leader will not be the highest.
So even Monty who kind of comes across as being, you know,
a loof to the troops he's there you go.
The brutal leader is not going to have good morale.
Factually.
An element of self-respect.
Self-respect is a whole section on self-respect that's coming.
Yeah.
But yes, if you have a dog and you beat the dog and you're a brutal leader, the dog will not have any self-confidence.
It'll be a broken dog.
You can do that with human beings too.
If you bark at your people and you break them down all the time, they won't be able to stand up.
Another way to do that in a more or should I say less brutal way is to do everything for sure.
Same thing men know.
You do it yourself.
Yeah.
If you're setting the table all the time, your daughter never realizes that she has the capability of doing that.
She's tying shoes, carrying backpacks, like all that, you know, everything.
If you're helping your kids, you're hurting your kids.
Yeah.
And that clarifies it even more in its culture.
Once you kind of latch onto that idea, you just see it everywhere.
You ever see these kids, like, I don't know, like a TV show or documentary type,
whether in, I don't know, somewhere in Asia or some village where the four year old girl goes and
she kills a snake and skins it and then walks like in the mud for another mile back home,
cooks it for the family, you know, like, and you're like, dang that cross for.
Yeah.
And she can do, like, I can't even do that stuff.
You know, kind of thing.
It's like, man, you can't put it into perspective where it's like, these are kids who are just like,
making it happen.
You know, beings are so adaptable.
Like, you see the little gymnast kids.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
There's six years old iron cross.
There's crazy, dude athletic feats that are just insane.
Yeah.
And why is that?
Well, because they were put in that position and train hard.
Now, some of those, some of the sometimes let's get straight a little bit too hard.
I think they lose, they can lose other aspects of their life.
But dang, if you wouldn't like to be able to do an iron cross, six years old, come on.
Yeah.
The point still told you remains.
Yes.
So let your kids develop and let your subordinates develop.
Give them responsibility, build them up.
Back to the book.
Moreover, it is important to realize that while men are dependent on the word of the leader,
they are capable of much independent action on their own.
And are even capable of making their own decisions.
So this is kind of, this is kind of funny, right?
It's Monti basically saying, look, I got a little surprise for you.
Little surprise.
Your troops can actually think for themselves.
Yeah.
You know, imagine that.
Imagine that.
So obviously this is, this is decentralized command, right?
This is it.
And you have to let your subordinates lead.
He goes on to say British soldiers have much native character and individuality.
What is required is that the leader shall give the initial and vital decisions along with which the men can work.
So yes.
And you know what?
This is actually a glad that Monti said it in that kind of funny way.
It's the same thing that we're talking about with kids,
where you think, oh well, my kids probably not capable of doing that.
Your kid is capable of doing that.
Yeah.
Your kid can go out there and kill a snake and bring it back and skin it and cook it.
Oh yeah.
You just have to allow them the the the room to let that happen and give them the authority and power them to do it.
Yeah.
Fully.
And that yeah.
So it's a night and day to the other actually last night.
Oh, I was making chicken. Yeah, I make chicken and I usually make rice in Hawaii.
You make rice with everything.
Anyway.
So I'm like, okay, make the right. I go, hey, I tell my daughter.
She's six again.
By the way, I was like, hey, make the rice.
Here's the thing.
I showed her how to make rice.
Make rice isn't hard, but it's not like, I mean, in most steps.
Yeah, there's some sense for sure.
And it wasn't for me anyway before I taught her how to make rice.
It wasn't real obvious that a six year old should be making rice.
You know, like, not in a rice cooker too, by the way, just like on the stove regular.
But I thought at that point, I was like, hey, why can't I just show her how and teach her how.
Even if I don't teach her in one day, okay, the next time we make rice, which is going to be soon,
I'll go over it again, kind of thing. Why should she not know how to make rice right now?
Why should I have to do this for her?
Whatever. Anyway, I teach her to tell her to make rice.
Super simple.
Boom last night was the first time where it was her responsibility to make rice.
She makes rice.
Six years old.
Makes rice.
Boom.
She's big.
But you know what?
No, we're moving in the right direction.
Exactly.
Right.
So the point is, too, is that you're as a leader.
As leaders the same thing.
You're letting your guys run the operation.
Let your troops step up and take control of something that you and your.
Egotistical maniac mind.
Think only your people will think that's what your boys can get it done to.
Yeah. And if they if they bat of 88 instead of 100 cool, next time they're going to get a 92.
And then I'm after that. They're going to get a 96.
Yeah, because that's a big obstacle too, right?
Mentally.
It's kind of like sure. I could teach him how to do it.
But why would I?
Well, yeah, you see that. You see that even more.
See in parenting.
It's like cool.
My kid can make the rice.
Oh, yeah, you're hot.
We must be.
But in in a team environment.
Our ego.
Our ego flares up because we want to be the one, right?
Yes, especially if you can do it at a 10.
Yes, guys only do it at eight at the end of the day.
And your job's done.
You know what? And you feel.
You feel like that's your little power.
You know, that's my little powers. Like, well, you know,
you really don't do that.
I better come down and check out how you're better.
I prep in this stuff because you know,
yeah, you know, I'm kind of the man.
Yeah, that's where it is.
Yeah, kind of like when you like,
let's say they had to like screw on some stuff or okay.
Are you so we're going to moving company right?
You know this.
And at the end, you load up the crates.
And the trucking, you have to tie him with a certain kind of knot.
Right.
Learn how to tie that knot.
The kind of the super tight.
But you all you got to do is pull one string to get cool little things.
So I learned how, right?
And yeah, I wanted the supervisor or whatever.
Like yeah, go tie it off or whatever.
And I could totally do it.
We've been doing this for months or whatever.
And then he'll go and he'll check it and he'll like,
then he'll pull it just a little bit more.
Yeah, you know, like as it's just like,
put a little bit on it.
You know, you said, just your from the mass.
You just have to do it right there.
But we do that all the time.
Like, does this we like to have our own little rice balls,
peaking the price, right?
That's a weird term.
But you've heard that term before, right?
Like, hey, you want somebody messing with his rice bowl.
Meaning like, this is mine.
Like, oh, I'm the guy that does this part of the job.
And I don't want anyone else know how to do it.
That's my little rice bowl.
Stay out of my rice bowl.
There's a lot of rice bowls.
I was never into that.
Well, at least once I was actually in leadership positions.
I was very, I'm not, I don't care.
Like, oh, you're, you come on.
Come on and grab some of this rice.
Because if you can, if you can take my rice bowl from me,
guess what?
I can go find another rice bowl.
I'll bring it in here and we'll start.
We'll have more rice.
It's good, man.
Yeah.
Because that's not as intuitive.
No, it's not.
Everyone thinks that everyone thinks that there.
Everyone leans towards, hey, I want to be the guy.
Yeah.
The ego flares up.
Back to the book.
Good morale can be created in a narrow sphere by a good leader.
But a platoon or company is obviously influenced by the general feelings existing in a division or army.
So now we're talking to you.
You have multiple layers, multiple layers above the platoon or the company.
You've got the army, you know, the division.
Good morale implies confidence in the high command and in the plan.
And you capitalize the plan.
The plan.
A strong leader on a high level can have a powerful influence on the general attitude to the men of a platoon.
He cannot however influence their movements over the last flute few vital yards of an attack.
On the other hand, a strong leader on the low level can make his men carry out a single fine attack.
But he cannot sustain their morale indefinitely if there is a lack of confidence in the high command and its plan.
That's a challenge.
It's a challenge.
If your troops are looking at the strategy going, what the hell are we doing?
Like you can get the guys through one attack or two or three missions.
But eventually they're saying, hey, what's going on? Why are we doing this?
This doesn't make any sense.
And vice versa.
A leader cannot do without discipline.
Do you ever think about when I say discipline on the podcast?
You should put some little.
Like a sound.
Every time I say.
Especially when I say something like this, a leader cannot do without discipline.
His aim must be to create such a discipline body of men that all his orders will be obeyed instantly.
This habit of obeying the leaders' orders must be so instilled into his men that he will carry on and fight even though he himself falls.
There's a problem with for that statement right there.
Right?
The aim, this aim cannot be achieved without discipline.
The second factor of morale is discipline.
So a couple of things here.
First of all, I don't want my team to instantly obey all my orders without question.
If I tell them to do something stupid, I actually want them to tell me no.
On top of that, if you think for one minute that all your people do is obey you,
that when you die, they're just going to suddenly sprout leadership skills and start leading you're wrong.
You have to raise them in a way and treat them in a way that they are being challenged as leaders themselves and they're being allowed to lead in their stepping up and leading.
And they're not waiting to instantly obey everything you do because if all you're doing is waiting for orders, you're not being proactive, you're not leading.
Decentralized commanders and happening and if something happens to me, you're going to freeze.
So this little section from Monti.
No, I don't like it. Discipline is something that is important. You have to understand.
You have to have discipline standard operating procedures. You have to have discipline to stay within those procedures.
But on top of that, you have to have the freedom to when those procedures aren't working to say, hey boss, this isn't a good call.
Here's what we should do instead.
Now, does this mean you and I are going to have a debate in the middle of a firefight over what the plan is?
No, because we work together, we trust each other. You know what I'm coming from. I know where you're coming from and when I make a call, you're going to do it.
And by the way, if you make a call even though I'm senior to you, if you make a call, guess what I'm going to do.
Guess what I'm going to do. Follow. Yes, I'm going to follow you.
If you're like, hey, jackal punch right, get ready to flank these guys and I'm the senior guy, but you just told me to do that.
Guess what I'm going to do it. I'm going to support you.
So that's what you want.
You have to be careful because as people, if you have someone whose personality is sensitive to that, right?
And you say, hey, jackal, come try and get on their flank.
And my response is, excuse me a minute, just who do you think you are actually I'm in charge of this platoon. Why don't you just lock it up?
We're not going to punch right. We're actually going to move, you know what I mean? That's where we can get into that situation all day long. Guess what's going to happen to all of us.
We're all going to die. So we have to figure that stuff out. We have to figure out that.
That we have to work together, but at the end, one of us has to submit to the situation, submit to the other person's leadership.
And by the way, there's 16 people in a platoon. In a seal platoon. There's 30 or 40 in a infantry platoon.
It's pretty easy to get in the habit of like, hey, when the boss speaks, we're all going to submit to what he's saying.
Oh, if the one of my platoon sergeants speaks, okay, well, he barks out something. Guess what? We'll submit to that.
Occasionally, someone else will rise up and see something.
We have to work and train together so that we know when we need to submit to someone else or when we, or when we need to say, hey, negative.
We're not doing that. We're going over here. These are, these are challenging things, right?
It's think of how easy it is to have the Monti attitude and be really easy for me to say right now.
Like, hey, listen, this is what happens. You'd have to have your men. So discipline when you tell them do something they do it.
That's the easiest solution, right? Oh, okay, great. Joc was put out the word. Oh, by the way, if I get hurt, follow the guy that's in the second chain of command. Okay, cool. That's easy.
That's easy day. Right? Now we're going to win every time. No wrong. Because guess what? Occasionally, me, I'm the leader.
I'm going to make a bad decision. And somebody needs to check me. Now are you going to check me every single time? No, you're not. Are you going to check me?
You know what? We're going to work together so much that if you think, you know what, I'm not sure Joc was making the right call, but at least I'm going to start to execute it. I'm going to keep a heads up and move forward.
And then if I see what I think might be a problem happening, I'm going to say something.
But my response out of the gate is we're going to go. That's the kind of thing that's going on here. This is a dynamic environment interacting of human beings. It's freaking challenging.
Yeah. But to blanket everyone, when I tell you to do something, you do it.
I want instant obedience to everything that I say.
Again, that works great, 94% of the time. 6% of the time, it's an auger disaster and everyone dies.
So we don't want to allow for that. We want to allow some flexibility in there. That is harder to do. It's harder to have that flexibility. It's much more challenging.
But it gives you such better capability and survivability.
That that's how you want to set it up. It takes a lot more. That's why that's why the more advanced you get in the more tactically advanced you get the more there is of that.
So if you go to a Marine Corps infantry, they're going to have less push back and less. They're going to have more obedience, more just straight road obedience.
As they should, because guess what? In 18 year old Marine doesn't have as much knowledge as a 25 year old staff serge or the platoon commander that went to the basics of going these right.
So there's you're going to have these situations that are going to, so in a normal infantry,
the platoon, there's going to be less push back. You get into a seal platoon. Well, now you've got a bunch of experience guys. Just about everyone here has a few to pull.
So the new guys are going to say anything. But the guys with two or three platoons, they're going to say, hey boss, not a good caller, they're going to give you some push back. Why?
Because you've got a more experienced field of people. So it takes more practice to get that to get to be able to interact together properly and have that flowing chain of command.
And also, and can expand and contract and can move from one person to the next dynamically as a mission is happening. I mean, there's times in close quarters combat where basically there's a person at the front of the train and that person rotates out every few seconds.
There's tactical situations where there's a new person making the calls every 10 seconds think about that. That's radical to have a new person making a call every 10 or 15 seconds. There's a new person doing it.
How do you do that? Well, they understand everyone understands, they understand the tactics, they understand how we work together. That's what we want.
As opposed to there's only one person that can make the call. That's just centralized command. So again, it's very, it's hard for me to to throw this out there, right?
Because I don't want an 18 year old Marine thinking, whoa, you know, I found a like with the platoon commander says, I'm just going to tell him no. Yeah, that's not what I'm saying. Not what I'm saying.
I do want you to think. I do want you as an 18 year old Marine to think. I want you to be understanding what decisions being made to the best of your ability.
And yes, if you see something happening that is absolutely not good and you know it, your damn right, you should speak up and your platoon commander should be happy that you're speaking up.
But if you're a guy that's going to speak up every time a decision gets made because you think maybe a different way that might be a little bit better in your mind, you're going to suffer the consequences of
number one, the whole platoon being in decisive and number two, your boss is going to tell you to shut up because your idea that might be 8% better than his idea.
We don't have time to discuss that right now. So unless you see something that's real significant, yes, shut up and do what you told.
If you see something that's really significant, okay, hey boss, negative can't do that. There you go.
The second factor discipline. The object of discipline is the is the conquest of fear.
Press this is new perspective for me that the reason we have discipline is to conquer fear.
It's interesting, right? Yeah.
Actually true, too. What is it that gets you to do that thing that you're afraid of? You have the discipline to just drive through it adequately to determine the best method of doing this requires an analysis of fear to be made.
There are two aspects of fear. Fear can suddenly attack a man through his imagination.
A corpse in a ditch or a grave by the side of the road will remind him of the peril of his position.
He will suddenly realize that he himself is liable to be killed. It is a function of discipline to fortify the mind.
So that it becomes reconciled to unpleasant sights and accepts them as normal everyday occurrences.
Fear can also creep in upon a man during periods of monotony in the line.
So this is the other type of fear. There's two types, right? The one that just jumps on you.
And the other one is creeps on you.
At such a time he will have the opportunity to appreciate the dangers which beset his life.
Fear acting through his thoughts can so reduce a man's hardcore of courage that he will become nervous and fearful.
Discipline strengthens the mind so that it becomes impervious to the corroding influence of fear.
He teaches men to confine their thoughts within certain definite limits and instills the habit of self-control.
Keep your emotions in check, keep your fear in check that requires discipline.
The basis of fear is the awareness of danger.
In itself this is healthy.
For a man who is aware of danger automatically takes steps to provide against it.
It is only when fear dominates the mind that it becomes unhealthy and leads to panic.
So fear is good, we know that fear is healthy, we know that until you let it dominate your mind and then it's a problem.
Men must be urged to fight fear with courage so that they will advance or defend and not take refuge in fight in flight or in action.
Man becomes aware of danger when he feels himself opposed to something more powerful than himself.
Right? Man becomes aware of danger when he feels himself opposed to something more powerful than himself.
In other words when he feels that his own armament is unequal to that of the enemy who oppose him.
It is important for a man to lose his individual feeling and to become an integral part of the battalion division and army to which he belongs.
The larger the unit of which he feels himself to be a member, the larger will be the estimation of his own armament and the less will be his fear.
It is here that discipline shows its value for it can help a man to lose his own identity and become a part of a larger stronger unit.
It is in this way that discipline will conquer fear.
Got a relate to that bigger group.
You see this in like gang fights.
The one person by themselves is a coward but then when they have 10 of their friends all of a sudden they're courageous. It's a horrible example but it's a reality.
Right? It's a total reality.
I used to see that in the streets.
Back in the day. Like one person.
Right. That's me when I was 15 years old. I'm super tough with all my friends. Right? It's a bad example but it's the reality.
Yeah, like the big scraps.
This corporate sense which discipline creates helps men face the unknown.
At night men in the line become afraid of the unknown which stretches out in front of them.
At all times in action they are afraid of new and terrifying weapons which may be used against them.
Realize that these unknown quantities may bring danger to them.
Their ability to face these dangers is immensely strengthened by feeling themselves to be part of a group.
The group is known and a certain quantity which they feel is strong enough to stand up to the unknown dangers with surround them.
Strength the numbers.
The method by which the conquest of fear is achieved is the unifying of men into a group or unit under obedience to order.
He rolls right back to obedience to orders.
Monty does.
And part of the reason is he's talking about conscripts a lot.
Drafties.
So there's a little bit of a.
That's what he's dealing with.
Now as we know from hack and from general muka yama like, hey, if you treat your people right, doesn't matter that the draft is.
Men require to be united if they are to give of their best.
Discipline seeks to instill into all ranks of sense of unity by compelling them to obey orders as one man.
This obedience to orders is the indispensable condition of good discipline.
Men learn to gain confidence and encouragement from doing the same thing as their fellows.
They drive strength and satisfaction from their company.
Their own identities become merged into the larger stronger identity of the unit.
You know what's interesting is I'll go.
I'll even go a little bit more hardcore against Monty.
You know what to me is an exceptional unit is the unit where you don't even have to give orders.
Where you just where everyone knows what the intent is or you give them a way of looking like, hey, this is the intent.
And people just do what they're supposed to do with no orders.
Yeah.
That's what you really want.
You know, there's a.
A chapter that lay fro where he's talking about prioritizing execute.
And he's talking about how it's when one of our guys fell through the roof.
They were on a mission.
They were in Overwatch.
They ended up having to conquer a sledgehammer through a concrete wall.
And Lief and I were talking about he's like writing the chapter.
And he was going to talk about like what his priorities were.
And how he told the guys like, you know, you do this to this and he's like, yeah, well, the thing is I didn't tell anyone to do anything.
And I was like, yeah, check because his guys knew.
But wait, we got this going on. We're going to set security. We're going to move like the everyone knows what's what you want.
And then what that allowed Lief to do is I think about, okay, now bigger priorities.
And that's what he wrote about.
But your troops, they shouldn't, you shouldn't even have to give them orders because they should be trained well enough to respond based on the situation and knowing and understanding the standard operating procedures and knowing very quickly what it is that your intent is as the leader.
So all you need to say is set security and the guys get into position where they're supposed to go.
That's how it should be. I'm not looking for, I'm not looking for obedience. You know what I'm looking for? What we used to call thinking shooters, you know, I want to pull too much thinking shooters.
Meaning that they're thinking for themselves, they're making things happen.
They're understand what it is that I want done, whether I set it to them or whether we pre-briefed it or whether we've been through this, we've drilled it.
But whatever they know what it is that I want done and I want my team to be thinking, this is decentralized command.
When you get into just wrote obedience, we're losing the aspect of decentralized command.
And as Monty said earlier, believe it or not.
Your men might be able to make some decisions on their own. It's like, yes, take that many, many steps further than that.
Check.
Continue on men must learn to obey orders when all their instincts cry out for them not to be obeyed.
They must learn to obey orders in times of stress so that they will do so in times of danger.
They must learn to carry out their tasks under any condition and despite all difficulties.
In this way, the mass of loose individuals with their fears and weaknesses can be welded together into a united hole ready to act on the word of the leaders.
So again, what I'm saying is, I don't want them ready to act on the word of the leader. I want them ready to act on the thought of the leader.
Discipline helps men to display fortitude in the face of fatigue and discomfort.
While at the same time it helps them conquer fear. It enables them uncomplainingly to triumph over difficulties which would have overcome them in times of peace.
This constant see in enduring hardship and fatigue is the quality which is most frequently required of the soldier.
Individual fortitude and corporate courage are the twin products of discipline.
So that's the straight positive aspects of discipline that I think of.
Hey, things are going to be more than an entire one-ever discomfort, whatever.
Fear, whatever. We have discipline, discipline, conquer all those things.
Discipline implies a conception of duty. Nothing will be accomplished in the crisis of by man without a sense of duty.
The century in and outpost holds his ground in the face of an attack because he has a sense of duty to those behind him. This sense is instilled by discipline because it teaches men to obey orders as a matter of course
to know that it is wrong not to obey them and write that it is their duty to do so.
For the soldier, this conception of duty does not embrace abstractions such as freedom or empire or democracy. In battle, a soldier's sense of duty extends only to the friends who are around him.
It is the job of the junior leader to encourage this sense of duty abstractions are the sphere of a politician.
So he goes real extreme in this one. And we all have heard this before. Hey, when you're in combat, you're not fighting for this political ideology, you're fighting for the man to your left and to your right.
Absolutely true. Absolutely true. I would say, well, I know that it's not just that you have to, you when the immediate battles over, you need to look and say, okay, well, why are we doing this? Oh, we're doing this because we believe in our cause.
So to me, it's both, you can't just cast out, you know, in my opinion abstractions are the sphere of politicians. No, troops need to believe in what they're doing.
A certain type of training may induce men to go forward and attack simply out of fear of the consequences of not doing so.
This applies only to the weakest and most feeble of men who are of little value in battle. This type of training is an essential part of discipline, but it's never be missed to be mistaken for the whole. So he kind of goes one way and then the other.
It's like, yeah, sometimes you're just going to have to.
You have to make people do what you want to do because they're afraid of you or they're afraid of the consequences. If you have to lead through fear.
If you, if you, if you're, if your team is doing something only because they're afraid of the consequences, that's a losing battle.
Well, it's a losing war, right? You might win the battle, but you're not going to win the war. Continuing on, the type of training mentioned in the preceding paragraph, which implies a certain harshness and hardness has its value.
The material comforts are now so incidious that there's some danger that this is the old fashioned idea of discipline. And it will be allowed to disappear. This must not happen.
Soldiers will not win battles if their training is not been hard.
That's a little less than for your entire life.
The softening influences of civilian life must be replaced by the exacting demands of military training.
Soldiers must forget the pleasures of peace and concentrate on the realities of war.
Isn't it funny that this, this could be written right now and some of the cool, you know, training is getting easier and all that.
It's like, we always think that got to keep it hard. You always got to fight against the slippery slope of things getting easier.
In brief, discipline seeks to conquer fear by welding men into a cohesive whole unit united by obedience to orders.
Yeah.
No, I'm not with you, money.
It aims to create a body strong enough to carry each of its members through dangers and difficulties which they themselves would be unable to face alone.
In this way, it promotes comradeship, which is the third factor of morale.
Okay, I much more important in my opinion than the blind obedience of orders morale.
So we're talking about comradeship now.
Moral cannot be good unless men have come unless men come to have affection for each other.
A fellow feeling must grow up which will result in a spirit of comradeship.
An army is made up of human beings.
So that however much a leader may inspire his man, however perfect the discipline morale will be hard and unsypathetic.
If the warmth of comradeship is not added to it.
War, the hard business is not necessarily a grim one. Men must laugh and joke together must enjoy each other's company and must get fun out of life even in times of danger.
Check this spirit of comradeship must begin at the section or tank crew level and work its way upward to army level.
The importance of encouraging men to band together and identify themselves with their units has already been emphasized.
This will be necessary to make considerable efforts to further this spirit of comradeship.
Junior commanders must plan to create this spirit in the same way they plan to train their men and fire their weapons.
Men must not be moved from unit to unit or even from platoon to platoon unless there's good reason for doing it.
And these reasons must be made clear to the men.
A man who has served among friends in the same platoon for a long time will be helped by them to face the trials of battle.
He will feel around him, his reserves of courage and purpose upon which he can draw.
There will be a feeling of solidarity and out of this feeling there will grow up a determination to advance together and defend together and even die together.
In wartime with such heavy casualties and constant reinforcements it is always found that this comradeship can be built up most quickly by ensuring that new arrivals has reinforcements belong to the part of Britain from which the unit is originally drawn and to which it belongs in peace time.
That's what you've got to have your team join together and then he's saying, look if you've got new reinforcements coming in and they came from Darbyshire and there's a unit from Darbyshire, send them to go work with the guys from Darbyshire.
They already have a connection.
The comradeship is, and you know who didn't do that, the Soviets, the Soviet Union was famous for not doing that because they didn't want there to be a really strong unity in the forces because then that unity might turn into a movement.
They didn't want that they would notoriously split everyone up. You would never be with a guy from your hometown. They'd split everyone up. This is the opposite of that.
This is based on affection and trust which between them produced and atmosphere of mutual goodwill and feeling of interdependence. Men learn to have faith in each other and to depend on each other according to the abilities of each and a tank crew, gun team or infantry section, men do not work well together, merely because they are disciplined and well led.
They do so because they trust each other and because they are bound together by an affection which is never expressed in words, but shown itself indeed.
Comradeship is a great antidote to fear because it gives a man friends. A man must take friends, a man must make friends in his platoon, friends whom he respects and admires.
In battle these friends will prevent him from feeling lonely. A man alone is a man who will find it hard to stand up to the dangers of the line.
A man alone is a man afraid. If he has friends he will derive strength from their presence and he will be anxious not to let them down in battle.
You will seek to do his fair share of all tasks which come to his crew or section he will feel ashamed if he cannot assist his friends in their duties and maintain his place with them in the line.
Within them a touch of streak of generosity and unselfishness, a touch of nobility and these qualities will be brought out in the attitude to their friends. Friendship causes men to give their best.
I guess we started talking about this a little bit in the beginning. If you are not, if you don't want to be a part of the team, you are going to miss this whole section of what makes a unit to have high morale.
If we are not friends that hurts our morale. They have these things and the rangers do a really good job of it. You can pier someone out.
Meaning we as peers can look at someone that we don't like or that doesn't want to be a part of the team and we can get rid of them.
If you are not a part of the team, you can do it. It is a little bit case by case.
If you are not a part of the team, you can do it.
If you are not going to be a part of the team, you can do it.
If none of us like echo, it is just to put echo at the bottom, three patrols in the row and you are gone. In the basic seal training, we don't really have a system like that. It takes a little bit more. You have to be a little bit more proactive because it is not just an existing thing.
We did have my seal training class. We had one guy that we peered out. My officers got feedback from everyone and said this guy shouldn't be here.
It was not a part of the team. It was not a part of the team.
It was a part of the team. It was a part of the team.
It seems like you could do that with a roommate situation.
It was a part of the team.
And so when is the matter just fighting because they're ordered to he literally says that I come on bro
That's not that that doesn't work that doesn't work in America and in you know you talk like look at that
That letter I read from the beginning. That's kind of why I wanted to read that letter as a con as a
Contradiction to this and as an I mean what he says in that letter is
Like look I'm not fighting for the great of England. He says that but he's fighting for the cause of security for his family
right so
People are thinking about that you don't you don't you don't
Say I'm willing to die just because some random dude ordered me to do it. No you have to have a connection to something greater than that
Otherwise you're you're suicidal right?
Yeah
Yeah, remember saving private Ryan. Yes, he said there's a movie. Yes
Tell me, he's right. He's like I don't know who Ryan. You know they got a safe private Ryan
Obviously and they're at this part
Where they're kind of questioning things you know guys, you know morale is breaking down
And you know things happen and what he says in part of his speech was like hey, I don't know who private Ryan is. I don't know him
So I basically questioning that
Particular cause but he said but if going and rescuing him earns me the right to get back to my family then that's my mission
So same deal same deal is the letter at that cost. Yes. He had his caught. Oh, yeah, and now is the one he was fighting for
here
Back to the book nevertheless nothing which has been stated here must be interpreted as minimizing the influence of cause on those officers and men who are moved by it
So then he he brings it back a little bit for these few cause will be a
sustaining and strengthening factor and maybe of greater importance to them than any of the other four factors
There are times when a few men will be gripped by a cause and will perform astonishing deeds of heroism to further it
Such men do not require the ordinary bonds of discipline which unite and strengthen others their devotion to the cause is in itself all sufficient
Nor do they require the same kind of leader that has been described name themselves will all be leaders
Such men may be properly described as
Gorilla or irregular fort fighters fanatically devoted to a political religious or national ideal
They must not be confused with conscript soldiers to whom this paper applies
So there you go. I mean in America, you know, we have all volunteer
But I'm telling you even it doesn't matter if you've got it you people have to understand there has to be some kind of a deeper causes to what you're doing
Or else you're gonna have real problems sure you can order people if they're constrips and you can punish them if they don't do you what you're gonna tell if they don't do
What you tell them to do you can punish them that is a way
But that is not going to be a successful way, you know, that is not gonna be the ideal way and by the way
If you're not using the ideal way you may win
But if you're going you can somebody that is using the ideal way that has a cause that they believe in and on top of that
Cause they have all these other things that the group that has a real cause will win every single time
Now there's some other contributory factors that he brings up here one is success. This is a real
obvious one success. Hymeralaz is possible in defeat, but not during a long period of defeat
On such occasions confidence and leaders will never be wane and the first basis will be undermined success
Will aid good morale by creating confidence in the leader and in the command this factor requires no enlargement
Next one is regimental tradition
Regimental spirit can be a powerful factor in making for a good morale
The more a soldier feels himself to be identified with his regiment the higher will be his morale if the four essential conditions have been fulfilled
It must be realized however
That not only that there can be a good morale without strong regimental feelings
But that regiments with great tradition do not necessarily always produce good battalions
So the tradition which there's some units that have awesome traditions and
You know being with some of those some of those units overseas. I mean the first the 506 obviously comes to comes to light and their
Their tradition the hundred and first everyone tradition was so thick
There's that pride was in every soldier that that war that
That ace of spades that that spade on their gear was like yeah, there's pride there. There's tradition
But he's saying it's not gonna replace these other things, but it is a factor that you can use another factor
Again contribute to a factor
Personal happiness
A man should be happy in the sense that his personal life should be in order
Nothing weakens a man more than trouble at home
It encourages it encourages him to think of home and all that it implies when he should be occupied with the enemy
It turns his mind to peace and his desire to live at the moment when it is necessary for him to steal himself to face the
Possibility of death. He must never be allowed to forget that it is his job to fight the function is to kill the enemy and in doing so
He must expose himself to danger
Anything which weakens his will to fight and expose himself must be considered to lower his morale
A soldier is only a family man after he is a soldier. He must look forward at the enemy and not back towards home
Some realism to that definitely
I think it can go either way. I think there's times where people can be driven
to success by their family back home
I think in their family, but it can definitely become a distraction
Yeah, it's a situation. Yeah, it seems like when there's a lot of risk involved it'll be a description is a
Destruction
Maybe
I think it depends on the individual like it depends on the circumstances
I think
What may be better to look whether it's a distraction on is it like what's going on at home?
That's what's more important if there's disruption at home
That's a problem
Right if you got a guy that's overseas and there's problems in the family life
That's what that's gonna hurt. Yeah
Yeah, it's weird because like you know guys that work sometimes anyway
Sometimes
You know they is something back can be going on at home. Yeah, they'll use work to sort of
Cover it up like playing in their mind. You know there'll be like hey that like
Again, I'm sorry for another movie reference, but there's something called true lies Arnold's
We're today. I've seen those
He goes yeah, so Arnold I haven't seen it enough times it came out 20 years ago to be pulling our quote
And story line, but hey, let's go with it. It's kind of he said the point of this one but he goes
Uh, you know Arnold finds out that his wife is or thinks that is why she's cheating on him with it
Like and then the partner
Tom Arnold goes he's all let's just focus on work. That's what I'll that's what I always do when my life turns to dog shit
I just focus on work. Yeah, you know well, but and the the point is like some people that's how you know
Something's going wrong at home. No, but like you know, I'm just focused on work screw that that's forget about it
You know, I'm immersed myself. Yeah, because I think you can control work. Yeah
You might not be able to control your relationship the way you think you should be able to yeah, huh? So
Continuing on all soldiers do not have morale affected by home troubles
Some men thrive on unhappiness and fight all the more fiercely because they hold a bitter a secret bitterness with that
them
Such men are the minority that's the person you just talked about right?
Hey, I was gonna go work harder, but it's such men are the minority, but they are a large minority
They are a reminder that happiness cannot buy itself produce good morale
Next is administration of men's ordinary day-to-day life must be well organized thus hard conditions imposed on him
Intraining to inculcate discipline do not rule out the desire ability of good living quarters and
In the line a soldiers morale will be much improved if the administration
Administrative arrangements are good and if he is assured of proper conditions with a reasonable amount of
Leisure and comfort when he leaves the front
Leisure day
Were you at
Were you at the o'von and then he says this but here a warning must be given
There is a danger today of welfare being considered as an end in itself and not as a means to an end
One of the means of maintaining morale welfare by itself will not produce good morale because it is essentially soft
And it has already been stating that morale cannot be good unless it contains a quality of hardness
You
Man you gotta remember that right you gotta remember that you're not ever gonna have good morale unless there's like an element of hardness to it
and
Continuing on hardship and privation are the school of the good soldier
Idleness and luxury are his enemies
Men will endure great hardships if they know why and are convinced of the necessity
Blood toil tears and sweat is not for nothing
One of the great rallying calls of the English race gorgings cry guns before butter expressed the same truth
if men believe in the need
hardships are in themselves
Stimulate to morale but the opposite is also true let there be any suggestion that butter can come before guns and the men will at once choose butter
If this happens there will be no morale in this sense of the definition
Then we get propaganda the uplifting effect of modern propaganda on a soldier is
Perhaps a new development
A man's morale is raised immensely by the feeling that his efforts are appreciated and applauded not only by his comrades and his officers but also the world at
Large you gotta you gotta get that propaganda working for you
I've had a couple companies I've been working with lately and one of them was being assaulted
by
It's competitors and
It had a better product
It's product was doing well, but they were getting assaulted and they were getting assaulted by the way with lies
Like the competitors are just making stuff up right making stuff up put that word out there
Roomers on officially and you know here's the thing the CEO was kind of
Did most of what you're what to do and I said you have the most how the most powerful tool in your arsenal
It's the truth
But you gotta weaponize that truth you gotta weaponize it you gotta turn it into a weapon that you can use to crush the lies
Because if you're doing great things and you're not telling anyone you're not putting out any propaganda
Well, and guess what no one's gonna know about it. You just lost your your most valuable weapon which is the truth
If you're doing good things and your product is better and you can prove that it's better and people know that it's better
But you're not telling anyone you're gonna you it doesn't matter if the weaponize that truth and get it out there
So that's what propaganda is
Now we are moving into the conclusion right here
In brief
Hi morale has been defined as the quality which makes men in dirt and show courage in times of fatigue and danger
The cultivation of morale depends upon the training of leaders the inculcation of discipline
The encouragement of comradeship and the infusing of self respect the leaders must have a belief in their cause
And they must pay attention to numerous contributory factors of considerable but secondary importance and here's how we close it out
Man is still the first weapon of war
His training is the most important consideration in the fashioning of a fighting army
All modern science is directed toward his assistance, but on his efforts depend the outcome of the battle
The morale of the soldier is the most important single factor in war
So there he is saying it again the morale of the soldier is the most important single factor in war and as I said I will argue with that
Because as far as I'm concerned without question leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield and I'm actually like I said
I'm thinking I'm right
So no offense to Monty, but I think I'm right because
If he's his factors to review them leadership
That's the number one factor. Well, that's leadership
Discipline where does that come from
Discipline comes from leadership?
Kamradi Ship where does that come from?
it comes from good leadership
Self respect where does that come from in this I'm not
I'm not saying that this is what Monty saying Monty said that discipline comes from leadership
Monty said that Kamradi ship comes from leadership Monty said that self respect comes from leadership
So as far as I'm concerned, no offense,
it's far as I'm concerned, leadership is the most important thing
on the battlefield, but that being said,
let there be no doubt that morale without question
is necessity and a requirement for victory.
And I will add this.
morale is important.
Extremely important, not only for a team,
not only for a military unit or a business
or any kind of organization made up of people,
but morale is also important for individuals.
For us day to day, how is your morale?
Where's your morale at?
Think about how you approach the day
when your morale is good.
Think about how you go into the day.
Just like you're going into attack.
If you're going to attack the enemy
and your morale is high,
you're going to attack with vigor.
And you're probably going to be successful.
If you go in to attack the enemy
and your morale is low,
you're going to attack without vigor,
without enthusiasm.
And you're probably going to fail.
Well, what about you as a person?
If your morale is low, guess what?
If you roll into the day,
you roll into your mission,
and your morale is low,
likely you are going to fail.
So then the question is,
how do we increase our personal,
individual morale?
And I think it's the same way we improve team morale.
We improve our personal morale with discipline,
with hardship and with privation
and with efficiency and with emotional control
and by facing our fears and, of course,
most important is leadership.
Leadership leading yourself and not allowing
this leadership vacuum in your head,
right when I was putting seals through training,
parking the day.
If there was chaos broke out,
there were sometimes where no leader would step up
and take charge and that would create a leadership vacuum.
And it was hard to tell what was happening
because no one would be saying anything.
It would just be silence and you didn't hear anything.
And so it's hard to recognize that all of a sudden,
wait a second, there's no one's leading.
You don't recognize it because it's not happening.
It's like seeing something that's not there.
It's not there, so you don't think about it.
Well, no one's leading.
Take sometimes it can be hard to notice that.
And I'd call that a leadership vacuum
and I teach these young seals like,
hey, when that happens, you need to step up.
Well, the same thing can happen in your head.
You get this leadership vacuum in your head
when you're not leading.
You're going to start to slide down the path
of least resistance.
You're going to slip on down that slippery slope.
You're going to walk away from discipline.
You're going to not impose hardship and privation
on yourself.
You're not going to push yourself.
And your morale is going to go down as well.
And if your morale fails well,
becomes very easy for you to fail.
Don't allow that.
Don't allow your morale to fail.
Lift up your morale.
Increase your morale by inflicting yourself with discipline.
By doing hard things, by controlling your emotions,
by controlling yourself, and by leading yourself
on the path of discipline, which as we know.
At least to freedom.
And I think that's actually all I've got.
Fort tonight, so, echo Charles.
Speaking of controlling ourselves and leading ourselves
down the path.
I know you've got some, let's say, some guide posts
on the path, some markers on the path, some signals
pointing in the right direction to get us down the path.
Yeah, so I'll sing about this tuddony.
I'm watching my daughter's performance.
Little singing performance.
Check.
Does this morning?
All good.
So for what reason?
Good.
Fine.
It was a big group of what grade?
Can't do that.
No, what grade did you give her when she was done?
I didn't give a grade.
How should I know how she's going to improve her performance?
I'll give her a grade when she gets home.
Check.
Okay.
Good.
What you're going to give her a grade?
Probably F for sure, because it's a long story.
That's beside the point, by the way.
So an F, probably F, what'd you do?
Just, it was, there were some things that happened post-performance.
What?
That tears?
That I didn't approve of the reason for the math.
Okay.
Tell me anyway.
Anyway, so that I will go over that later.
So the point is, I'm thinking, what is the path?
This is probably the first time I've ever wanted you to go to detail on the story.
No, no matter.
Did she freak out?
No.
She just gave us a little detail.
Okay.
So she's shy.
She's performing good.
Fine.
Like, it's the whole class.
You know, like, what do you call it?
And assembly.
Okay.
Yeah.
So we're talking 100 kids on stage.
Or is it just one class and there's only 25 kids on stage?
One class.
And it's not a really a stage.
It's like, okay.
It's in the class chart, you know, of course.
Okay.
It's a real official scenario.
Yeah.
So yeah, they go, they perform good.
It's for as performance goes fine.
You know, remember, it's the song she performed in front of us.
Yep.
You know, the night before, and the night before that, she'll go good.
Oh, but then they had to sit down and then the assembly sort of went on.
So they're sitting down and I look over and I see your crying, which I didn't.
I was confused, but I know my daughter, like she's like, she's softy like that.
My fault.
I know.
So she's looking back on me.
She's looking back to me all salty.
And I'm like, I'm not concerned because I know something didn't go wrong.
Something's happening that she just doesn't like.
Like she's tired of sitting there.
Okay.
Or something like that.
So she's looking back at me.
I'm just like, you know, I don't give it that much attention later on.
I find out as she's walking to her class because I feel assembly.
They go to their class.
And she's like, oh, yeah, I didn't like how long the assembly was going on.
That's what she said to me.
Yeah, that's why she was crying.
That's why she's crying.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, true.
And here's the thing, it she shouldn't feel that strongly about it.
You know, there's something else going on to be honest with you, bro.
I, she, she's like, softy.
She's like, I like, it one thing's don't go her way in certain ways.
So, you know, and she's uncomfortable or whatever.
So if I were you, how'd break it down like this?
I wouldn't just give her an F across the board.
I would give her like a breakout, maybe some different categories.
I'd give her like an A for singing or maybe a B.
You know what I mean?
Cause I'd probably not hit never know, right?
Maybe a B minus or whatever.
And then give her, you know, presence.
I used to, this is how I used to grade my kids when they were do stuff like this.
I'd give them presence.
I'd give them attitude.
I'd give them clarity, anunciation.
Like there's a bunch of things you can break it down.
And you don't want to give her five o'clock across the board, obviously.
Cause you know, five o'clock performer, not an H6, don't exist.
No, not a bar down.
It's not a bar down.
Right.
So, but then you say listen, by the way, all your performance, which you have, you know,
you got a 3.8 on, that's your average score, post performance behavior.
Had to give you a zero, zero.
Yeah.
Tears.
Don't ever let these other kids know that you've been, you should be having the
attitude.
I could stand out here, I could sit out here all day and say, really bring it.
Check.
All right.
It's way.
So as this is unfolding, oh, this is more to the story.
Okay.
Well, that wasn't the point.
Yeah.
That was just a setting.
But I was just thinking, like, what is the path?
Like, what is that?
Is it just the stuff that Jocco does and now we do it?
No.
It's not that.
Actually, right, it's some of the stuff you do in my opinion is essential quintessential.
Yeah.
It's like ideal.
Right.
That's what I think that's my opinion.
I'm trying.
I'm missing by a lot.
My, you know, I'm coming in.
I saw it too too.
Most, most people.
Oh, yeah.
But that's just you being hard on the stand, on the scale.
Right on yourself.
No.
Put it this way.
The path is something specific, but more than that, I just, I just realized,
not realized, but more like consciously thought of what's not the path.
That's what, that's important.
So it's like, okay, if you're doing Jocco, are you not on the path?
Not necessarily.
You have to be doing or neglecting some very specific things to not be on the path.
Like if you don't care about what you're eating, like you're just like whatever.
Feel sounds good tonight.
That's told the total standard in which you base your meals on.
You're probably not on the path.
That's a big indicator.
Well, you're one of the factors.
It's an area where you need to tighten things up.
Yes.
Because we know you're not performing optimally if you're not eating correctly.
Yeah.
So we'll just say that element is considered not on the path.
Right.
So that's just one example of many.
You know, like if you just straight up don't exercise.
I don't.
Yeah.
And some people have active lifestyles in general and they don't consider it, quote,
I'm quote, exercise.
I get it, but then that's different or whatever.
But if you're like inactive, you're sedentary.
Yeah.
That quality is not on the path.
True.
So basically what is not on the path is if you have most of the elements of your life
is not on the path.
You'll know.
Also, there's also a really broad thing because you could.
You don't even if you're, even if you're trying, right?
That's what the path is.
Right.
The path is like, hey, I'm trying.
Now I guess, yeah, I guess that's a little bit strong.
I guess I am trying to work out, but I just didn't get it again today.
So yeah, you know what, you're not on the path.
That's a good point.
Yes.
But you don't have to be, you know, doing the nine hour workout with a six hour
GJ2 session afterwards.
No.
Oh, you only had an hour.
You only had 30 minutes to train today.
Cool.
Got it done quick.
I did a pretty quick.
I did 20 minutes today.
That's what I got to.
I got flew in late last night.
Welcome this morning.
I had another call.
So I was like, okay, cool.
I'm going to hammer this thing out.
I had that window closing too.
You know, the windows like, well, maybe I'll just pull.
Oh, yeah.
That's real.
Just to me, this is, you know, no, no.
You can't let the window close.
That was a really good concept.
We talked about the GJ2 window.
Yes.
It happens with working out too, right?
Even though that's mostly self imposed.
It is mostly self imposed for working out, but it does happen.
If you have work to do a legitimate work, you have meetings, you have calls.
And you're like, well, you know, I took that one call or I woke up the
morning and all well, you know, I got that call on it.
Wait a second, I, you know, I brushing my teeth and wait a second, I'm going to just
go check my email.
Oh, now the window, it's all the window.
No, no, no, no, just shut down.
I'm going to have to work out later, which will never happen.
Yeah.
Don't let the window shut.
Yeah, just, yeah, jump through it.
Yeah, jump through the window.
Jump cool.
But hey, man.
And to recognize what the path isn't is just important as recognizing what the path
is.
Because if you're like, hey, are you trying to, like, I don't know.
I mean, what are people saying, like, are you trying to improve yourself or whatever?
Most people would say, yes, yeah, it would be like, oh, yeah, look at all the things.
But it's like, you kind of know, you know, like, it's different.
You just sort of know.
Yeah.
Like, if you're doing due to your sort on the path with that alone, maybe not fully,
but that is a legitimate element.
So when you do due to it, if you're new or not new, whatever, you're going to need
a geek.
Yeah.
One gear, we're getting.
I think we all know origin because they're the best geese.
So how are they the best geese?
Okay.
So if you just put one on, you'll sort of know, but here's the indicator.
Won't go too deep into it.
But coach Adam.
Mm-hmm.
The same coach in way or the way or your kid, by the way, there's a real coach Adam.
So coach Adam puts on his rift gear inside out.
Top.
Yeah.
The gear top inside out.
I think he thought it was correct.
Yeah.
And that was indicative of just, because it shows the stitching.
And I looked at it.
I looked at that.
It looks kind of cool, right?
Yeah.
What I grew up in because Pete was saying, he took the genes, origin genes, which are now out.
And he was expeeed, turned, or he said, hey, if you want to know what the quality of these
genes turns them in, he turned them inside out.
He's like, look at what they're talking for.
The inside.
So now you have Adam, who sees that?
You put this gear on inside out, because the quality is so high that you can't even tell.
He thought that was the correct way to do it.
That's what he thought that was going to work.
It was correct.
I mean, while the logo was all back written and stuff.
So, you know, he really shouldn't know that.
But, you know, hey, teach their own and it looked good either way.
So that's what we're at with origin.
We got clothing, including genes, gays, t-shirts, sweatshirts, other stuff.
And then we got supplements as well.
Yeah.
Supplements are good.
Joint warfare.
I think I'm talking a Greg Train, right.
One of our main training partners.
He has a AC joint situation.
Yeah.
Two sides by the way.
And I'm telling him, if you put together the joint warfare with the superkrill oil discipline
every single day, that thing will heal straight up faster, measureably fast.
100%.
Then just look at my knee situation.
Which, man, I'm a believer now.
You're now a believer.
I'm increased my beliefs of my own personal kind of like Wolverine healing powers.
Yeah.
And I've been choked about before even that wasn't really Joe.
You know, you joke about something, but you kind of mean it.
Yeah.
I feel real lucky, man.
Real lucky, because my knee was straight up.
Oh, yeah.
Endered.
And it's not healed yet, but dang, if it hasn't progressed a lot.
Yeah.
And it's not like, you know, when you're like 18 years old, maybe a lighter weight
person or something, it's like you tend to sort of heal faster.
Yeah.
But it's face that you're, you know, your old school.
And you're not.
Very small school or maybe not.
Oh, they're good.
Your old school, right?
And, you know, what are you walking around at 230 to 35?
I mean, I'm just saying that's not an easy racket for the knee.
So all the time.
Yeah.
Meanwhile, you're just boom, boom, boom, bouncing back that fast.
That's saying a lot.
Yeah.
See you in a big lot.
Join Warfare, Cril Oil.
Get some of that.
Also the discipline and discipline go ahead of scenario the other day.
That's actually yesterday.
Sure.
Crazy flight situation.
Understandably rerouting, landing buses, trains is ridiculous.
Anyways, I'm going into an interview on two hours of sleep.
Oh, dang.
Yeah.
And this is just after, you know, Peter at T.
is telling me about all the horrible, like cognitive problems that are going to
give you cause.
And so yeah, I took, I took like two discipline go.
When I woke up, I got the interview and then I got there and I did a little bit of, you
know, playing around, or not playing around.
But they were like prepping for the interview and then I took like three more.
So I took five discipline go, rocked it.
I went to those like, I got what?
You got a question.
Let me tell you, I think we can get some more.
So anyways, try that discipline go out if you need something to focus your cognitive.
So you can get some of that or you can get the discipline go.
You need the discipline powder.
Should we just call that Prejujitsu powder?
Yeah, that's it's starting itself out to me.
Yeah, it kind of turns like something where you are going to jitsu.
You're going to need cognitive skills and you know, you're going to need some physical
skills or some physical enhancements.
Sure.
I'm going to call the couple scoops of discipline.
Maybe three.
If you need to.
If you want to get nuts.
Yeah, that's a good one.
That's part of my everyday now.
I'm pulling the Dave Burke everyday.
Yeah, that's I was, look, there's one thing that's good about it.
It doesn't have some crazy amount of caffeine in it.
You don't want to be all I am up on caffeine.
When you take something, because it's tough to make me feel really good.
Well, you just took a big hit at caffeine and you're going to get what's that word.
You're going to get a tolerance to it and then it's not going to have to be effected.
Discipline has like 15 milligrams of caffeine at per scoop. That's not that much.
So what do you feel like the.
You're not really feeling you're feeling the other.
Yeah, ingredients in there.
So don't don't fool yourself and get all amped up on caffeine.
You know, or otherwise you might as well go do meth or cocaine.
Or just getting some coffee with you.
You know, you know, you know, that's kind of off the.
No, I'm just kidding.
Children don't do meth or cocaine.
Don't do drugs.
Period.
If you want to do something that gives you sort of a addiction, try some strawberry milk,
which is now out for adults.
It is absolutely delicious.
If you want some extra protein in your body.
So you can get bigger, stronger, faster.
Better.
Yeah, true.
And you and or or if you just want dessert.
Yeah.
You just want some dessert.
Have some strawberry milk or some peanut butter milk or some mint milk or something.
Nella or dark chocolate.
There you go.
And chocolate tea.
If you're into tea or even if you're not into tea.
Really.
And there's really into tea.
You know, against it.
But, you know, this one of those things.
So the OG original.
Jocco white tea.
Pomegranate.
Yeah.
Right.
Not a pomegranate.
Chai.
No.
White tea.
Jocco decides to make his own light tea with side effects dead lifting 8000 pounds.
All right.
I'll roll with it.
It's actually pretty good.
So yeah, get that.
It is available on Jocco store now, by the way.
And I'm a so.
And, you know, just going to go on the internet.
Basically, you get it.
So yeah, that's a good one.
Speaking of this jocco store.
Jocco does have a store.
It's called Jocco store.
Just like this is called Jocco podcast.
Jocco store.
So Jocco store commas for this online store.
This is where you can get rash guards for you.
Jiu Jitsu to supplement your geese from Warton.
Also to your new no-gui correct.
You can wear a rash guard.
Oh, yeah.
It's kind of if you're doing it.
You can bring workouts using your rings.
If you're doing dips, if you're doing ring push ups, if you're doing muscle ups,
you're the what is it the what would Greg chain say like the outside of your arm.
He's got he was always got the medical to everything.
You're redo.
Whatever you'll get all like shaved up.
Yeah.
When you're doing a bunch of muscle ups or a bunch of ring dips or whatever.
If you were rash guard, you won't.
Oh, Jocco going for comfort over here.
Speaking of comfort, if you like even so I got into writing like a little bit.
Not totally but if you were a rash guard writing bike like cycling.
Yeah.
It's like surprisingly.
I'm going to say it's surprisingly comfortable.
Functional.
It's functional.
That did.
So, you know, there's a lot of other things you we do with our rash guards.
And actually I forgot to say this.
We forgot to say this for a while.
It does add another 19% performance.
And literally everything you do.
Literally.
Yeah.
Also typically proven.
100%.
Also t-shirts.
If you want to represent discipline equals freedom.
Good.
Any of the layers that we've come to.
Exploite.
Is that the character terminology?
Makes people like the layers.
Um, anyway.
Explore the layers.
Explore for sure that.
Sometimes you exploit the layers which you know it's questionable behavior.
Don't forget to subscribe to this podcast.
Um, whatever you subscribe to podcast.
If I wouldn't think that you would listen to this whole podcast and not subscribe to it,
but maybe you did.
Don't do that.
Subscribe to it.
I didn't leave a review so I can read your funny review about getting after it and what not.
Also where your kid podcast speaking of subscribing.
Yeah.
So that's that's not just for the kids.
That's for everybody.
If you want just simple straight up simple answers to your questions that your kids happen to beat you to the punch and asking.
My daughter has a question from the Jake.
Nice.
Um, nonetheless, you even if you're not a kid.
Will like this or your kid podcast.
Don't forget to check out that warrior kid that's making soap.
Aiden Irish Oaks Ranch.com making troopers soap making jocquas soap.
You can use that soap so that you can stick.
Yeah.
Oh, it's stick.
Also for the video version of this podcast if you want to watch it rather than just listen to it.
We do have a YouTube channel.
Also, uh, excerpts on there.
If you want to, you know, share some elements of the podcast that are good takeaways individually.
Um, share them with your friends. It's not like, hey, I saw this.
I got a cool idea for you.
Here's a four hour podcast.
Yeah.
Let's go.
Just listen to your y'all catch it every day.
But, you know, it's in somewhere.
Yeah.
And I can listen to that on a whim.
So you can just, you know, send them a little hit or write them.
Yeah.
Oh, that's what we should have called them.
Little little video hitters.
Sure.
There you go.
I like that better than make nuggets.
No, Brad, you're the one who made up jockel.
I can't change my mind and come up with something better, a little video hitter.
All right.
There it is.
That video hitter.
You need to make more of those hitters.
Yes, sir. There you go.
But nonetheless, if you're interested in any video things hitters, hitters, in regards to this
But it's probably an acquired situation.
It just sounds cooler when Theo says it.
Yeah.
I know.
So I'm like, I'm used to you saying it.
So it's cool.
But me saying I'm not ready yet.
Mm-hmm.
But I'll get there.
So psychological warfare that has a bunch of little short audio hitters that you can listen
to if you need to power through a moment of weakness.
It's on iTunes, Google Play or other MP3 platforms.
Flipsidecanvis.com, a brother Dakota Meyer.
He started a company.
Why?
Because he's a bad ass and you want to start a company.
The company that he started is making things to hang on your wall.
Art will call it.
With little art.
With layers.
The art has layers.
Little art hitters that you can put up on your wall.
I get tell I frustrated you with that.
No man, keep it going.
It's good.
And you get those.
You can get them from fun because I can't.
This dot com makes all kinds of cool stuff on that says good.
One that says.
All your excuses are lies.
One that says time is running out.
One that says discipline equals freedom.
Yeah.
You can get those.
For side camis dot com support my brother.
Dakota Meyer.
Also, when you're expanding your home GM your home exercise situation really go to on it.
So go on it dot com slash jockels where you can get your kettlebells.
Good kettlebells.
Artistic little bells.
That art flow around here today.
Oh yeah, big time.
The primal bells.
They got the star words and ones now.
You know, I got that one.
I'm thinking I'm making another one man.
The kettlebells have been a huge part of my recent workouts.
That's good.
Oh yeah, build it up.
Oh, straight.
Nonetheless, you can get rings there as well.
Some immunity stuff.
I say that because that's been on that recently.
You see little kids running around with cold.
You know, running knows this.
Yeah, you're just hitting your kids going to school.
Your kid is just a host for disease to back into your house.
A little last.
Especially when they're crying.
I know.
So yeah, I've been on that.
The shroom tech immune.
So good on anyway.
They got a lot of good stuff on there.
So yeah, on it dot com slash jockels.
We got some books.
I have a new book coming out.
It is called Way of the Warrior Kid 3.
Where there's a will.
It is available for pre-order right now.
The publishing company needs to know how many of these books to print.
The publishing company is me.
Sure.
So if you want to have this book, please pre-order it ASAP.
So I know how many copies to print.
The name of the book is Way of the Warrior Kid 3.
And I'm actually putting that on the cover.
Now, when I made Way of the Warrior Kid 2, I said to the publisher,
Haken, we put Way of the Warrior Kid 2 on the cover.
And they said, no, we can't do that.
And I said, well, why not?
And they said, well, if people know it's the second in the series,
and they don't have the first, they won't buy it.
So we can't put that on the cover.
We don't want to hurt sales.
So I said, I thought to myself, oh, we're just trying to confuse people.
So they will buy more.
I'm not trying to confuse anybody here.
Way of the Warrior Kid 3 on the cover.
It's the third book in the series.
John Bosac, the artist, thinks it's the best book in the series.
Lessons to be learned.
Shusty.
There's also Way of the Warrior Kid 2, which is called Mark's Mission.
And there's the original Way of the Warrior Kid.
And then on top of that, for your children,
and possibly for you too.
We got Mike in the Dragons.
You can order that one now.
For your younger kids, also the Dispeningro's Freedom Field Manual.
I already talked about that one.
The audio of that is on iTunes, not on audible.
So it's on MP3 in an Extreme Ownership and DiCotomy Leadership,
which I wrote with my brother, Lave Babin.
And we talk about leadership from our perspective,
going from the military, combat,
taking those lessons, learning to bring it back,
and now turning them over to the civilian sector.
And on top of that, we also have a leadership consultancy called Eshelon Front,
where we solve problems through leadership.
If you want us to come to your company and help you with your leadership,
go to Eshelon Front.com.
If you want someone on my team to come and speak to your company,
including me, don't reach out to a speaker's bureau.
Don't Google, Jocco speaking and click on the first advertisement that pops up.
Go to Eshelon Front.com, which is Eshelon Front.com will pop up as well,
but you might not recognize that.
So come straight to the source Eshelon Front.com,
if you need leadership help at your company team or organization.
We've also got the Master May 23, 24th in Chicago, sold out.
September 19th in 20th in Denver, getting to be sold out.
Sydney, Australia, December 4th in 5th,
looking forward to all those Czech extremownership.com
if you want to get in the mix at the Master.
If you can't come to the Master,
but you want to get in the mix, go to EF Online.com.
This is interactive leadership training.
It is based on what we do at the Master on getting granular on the principles
that are in the book, Extreme Ownership and the Academy of Leadership.
And everything I talk about on this podcast,
it's in their concise, clear ways,
so people can understand it.
And then on top of that, it's interactive.
So you get put into leadership situations.
You have to learn to make decisions.
It's a great program.
And if you want to check that out,
it's EF Online.com.
And then last, we've got EF Overwatch,
which is our,
basically, it's our Manning company,
where we will take individuals from special operations and the combat aviation communities
and put them into leadership positions inside of companies.
That need leadership inside their organization.
So if you're looking for leadership,
which you are,
because every problem that you have in a company or on a team,
is because of leadership.
So if you need help with your leadership,
go to EF Overwatch.com and fill out the information.
And if you want to cruise hard with us more,
we're on the interwebs,
Twitter, Instagram, and of Facebook.
The Facebook, the Facebook,
you know the Facebook is the original name.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I didn't know that.
And Justin Timberlake was like,
hey, don't, sorry, not Justin Timberlake.
Sean Park, Parker.
Anyway, you ever seen the movie that shows,
you know what I was the reason?
He said, drop the, the,
just Facebook.
Who says,
Sean Parker, the Napster guy.
Okay.
Played by Justin Timberlake in the movie.
Oh, God, it got it.
Very good.
If you're on those platforms.
Sure.
Yeah, I'm at Echo Charles.
Jocquoise at Jocquoise.
Yeah.
On all of them.
Don't keep it simple like that.
And thanks to all of our military folks out there
who keep their morale high and keep their bayonets sharp
out there on the line.
And thanks to the police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and
dispatchers and correctional officers and border patrol and secret service and all the other first responders.
Thanks to all of you for standing up and facing evil so that we don't have to.
And to everyone else out there.
You're,
you're morale.
You might be low from time to time.
They can happen.
They can happen to anyone.
And it does happen to everyone.
And when it does start to slip recognize it.
And then remember that you can actually do something about it.
Like young.
Evil,
Roberry said,
not letter.
Don't grieve.
Don't cry.
Don't worry or fret.
Surely there's no better way of dying.
He said.
Then fighting.
Then standing up.
And that is what you do.
You fight.
You stand up.
You impose discipline on your life.
You face the things that you fear.
The things that are crushing your morale.
You face them.
And you lift up your morale through force of will by leading by going out.
And getting after it.
And so until next time,
this is echo and jacco out.